### About AltVel/SevenPHP

	- AltVel is developed by Elisha Temiloluwa a.k.a TemmyScope	

	- Inspired By Phalcon & Laravel Php Web Application Frameworks.

***AltVel is a web application framework with priority on security, performance and standard-compliance (Im that order). 
We believe development must be enjoyable, flexible and creative; hence we take the "routines" out of web application development for php developers (code Engineers). 
***

	- Install using composer
```
composer require altvel/altvel
```

	=> Recommended: Create Project automatically using composer
```
coomposer create-project altvel/altvel
```

	- You can also download through github; This would involve a lot of manual configuration  


### AltVel takes the pain out of development by easing common tasks used in many web projects, such as:
##

***Simple, efficient & fast routing Engines***

***ModelTrait for database data retrieval built on Doctrine's dbal package***

***Supports all PHP PDO supported database types***

***Improved Model class for eloquent data retrieval[method chaining]***

***Engineer Console: [ To see all commands: php Engineer]***
	
***Automatically generate keys for secured session, cookie and salt***

***A Utility HTML Template Builder [Fast Development for Backend Php developers]***



### The following conventions are used:
##

	=> All view files must reside in a folder within the view folder within the public folder with respect to the view they display.
	
***Generate using the commandline:***

***To generate a home view folder and initialize an index blade file...***
```bash
 php Engineer app::view home
```
***To generate a specific file in an existing view folder: 
	For example creating edit blade file in profile folder***

```bash
 php Engineer app::view profile edit
```




	=> The only file exempted is the app.blade.php which is the default view file for rendering.

	=> All classes that extend the Model class, should be placed directly under the app folder.


AltVel is accessible, flexible, editable, powerful, and provides tools required for large, robust applications.

## Learning AltVel

AltVel has no syntax of its own but uses the inherited php syntax, making it extremely easy for an average php developer to make use of.

## AltVel How-To

##### The HTML template builder Helper class does not eliminate the need for a frontend designer:
####

	=> Several helper methods are available for use.
	
	=> Generates csrf token for each page to improve security against cross-site request forgery
	
	=> Together with the user_navbar array in Config.php, NavBar with dropdowns can be automatically generated
	
	=> Generates CSRF-secured Form using  Array construct passed to generateForm static method

### In order to access data sent to the View renderer, use $dataSource variable; 
##

## Creating Migrations

***This section shows you how to :-*** 
	*create database,
	*migrate & 
	*populate
	table(s) using the name

# Database Creation
	=> Database can be created using the terminal, for example, to create a database called music, use:

```bash
	php Engineer app::db music
```

	=> Migrations can be added to the App\Providers\MigrationEngine migrate method in the form:

```php
return [
    //table ids are automatically generated as primary keys
	'apps' => [
	  //the referenced table must already exist and the name must be exact to avoid errors
	  'token' => $this->foreign_key($table='sessions_table', $column='session' $type = 'int' || 'string'),
	  
	  //$key can be one of [ 'primary', 'unique','fulltext', '' ]
	  'name' => $this->string($max_length=125, $null=true),
	  'pos' => $this->integer($max_length=10),
	  
	  //in other to specify a maximum length, float should be used instead of a double
	  'account_balance' => $this->double() || $this->float($max_length=16), 
		
	  'is_verified' => $this->oneOf($options=["'true'", "'false'"], $default="'false'" ),
	  'created_at' => $this->datetime()
	],
	//constraints: a table can only have one primary key and it will be autogenerated
	'users' => [
	  'name' => $this->string($max_length=125, $null=false),
	  'email' => $this->string($max_length=125, $null=false, $key='unique'),
	  'password' => $this->string($max_length=125),
	  'backup_pass' => $this->string($max_length=150),
	  'activation' => $this->string($max_length=225),
	  'verified' => $this->oneOf($options=["'true'", "'false'"], $default="'false'" ),
	  'created_at' => $this->datetime(),
	  'deleted' => $this->oneOf($options=["'true'", "'false'"], $default="'false'" )
	],
	
	'user_sessions' => [
	  'user_id' => $this->foreign_key($table='users', $column='id', $type = 'int' ),
	  'session' => $this->string($max_length=225, $null=false),
	  'user_agent' => $this->string($max_length=225, $null=false),
	  'push_token' => $this->string($max_length=225, $null=false),
	  'created_at' => $this->datetime(),
	  'deleted' => $this->oneOf($options=["'true'", "'false'"], $default="'false'" )
	],
];
//constraints: a table can only have one primary key and it will be autogenerated by the MigrationEngine Library
### id is auto-generated and would be ignored
``` 

#### Populate a table with data by adding array of arrays to the populate method's return array
```php
return [
	'table name' => [ 'column name' => 'value' , 'column name' => 'value' , 'column name' => 'value' ],
	'table name' => [...],
];
```

### Migration Generation Steps
##
	=> After creating migrations

	=> Add Name of tables to be migrated to the MIGRATION array in the configuration app.php file in the config folder

```php
'MIGRATION' => [
	'users', 'user_session', 'contact_us'
]
```

***Then run in the terminal
```bash
php Engineer app::migrate
```

### AltVel Sponsors
##
If you are interested in becoming a sponsor, please visit the AltVel [Patreon page](https://patreon.com/temmyscope).

### Contributing
##
Improve the code as much as possible; keeping syntax-flebility (ability to use plain php),
security, standard-compliance and performance in mind. All Efforts will be appreciated. 
Ensure to add your name to the comment section on the index.php page. 

## Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability within AltVel, please send an e-mail to TemmyScope via [temmyscope@protonmail.com] All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.

## License
The AltVel framework is an open-source software.


### Todos
##
***Readme.md, Console helper, database packages, unit testing, environment variables and intrinsic application configurations, 
creation of an internal $app object using an Application class, logging, other helpers, structuring  are being improved.***


### Development & Library Integration
##
***integrations are done to fit a minimal, lightweight and performant production version.
Hence libraries that are not required for production are not added to the framework using composer,
rather they are built into the Application, using the conditional autoloading.
A loose and less-than-overwhelming feel is kept on the number of folders and files.
Due  to the PHP-8 feature for preloading, any simple library not necessary for development
would not be added/required to reduce the memory effect of preloading autoloaded files.
Developers can composer remove unnecessary libraries that do not fit with their use cases.*** 